Cockpit 322 (#751)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2024-08-08-cockpit-322.md

can potentially interact with each other in ways that might not be
expected within an SSH trust boundary. For example, when connecting to
an untrusted host from another host, it's assumed that the untrusted
host should not have access or control over the originating
host. However, due to web technology limitations, hosts may affect one
another through [direct remote
channels](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/COCKPIT-870), [iframe
traversal](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-4032), [cache
poisoning](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-4037), and other
means.

After several months of research into current web technologies, we
found no way to prevent these concerns. Therefore, the Cockpit team
intends to disable the host switcher feature.

As a first step, the host switcher will be disabled by default in:
- Fedora 41 and later
- Debian Unstable and Testing
- CentOS Stream 10
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10
- Arch Linux

The host switcher will stay as-is in current stable Linux
distributions. This includes Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9, CentOS Stream
9, Fedora 39 and 40, Debian 12 "Bookworm", and Ubuntu 22.04 LTS and
24.04 LTS.

### Alternatives

> * The login page offers a "Connect to:" field which will directly
>   connect to another host using SSH. This is safe as long as you only
>   connect to a single host from a browser session. This will always be
>   supported. However, this only supports user/password or Kerberos
>   authentication, not SSH keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The login page offers a "Connect to:" field which will directly
  connect to another host using SSH. This is safe as long as you only
  connect to a single host within a browser session. This will always be
  supported. However, this only supports user/password or Kerberos
  authentication, not SSH keys.
```

Author: Thanks!

Reviewer: Also: Logging out of a session fixes the issue, right? Is that implied here and clear enough?

9, Fedora 39 and 40, Debian 12 "Bookworm", and Ubuntu 22.04 LTS and
24.04 LTS.

### Alternatives

* The login page offers a "Connect to:" field which will directly
  connect to another host using SSH. This is safe and will always be
  supported. However, this only supports user/password or Kerberos
  authentication, not SSH keys.

* On a Linux desktop, consider using the [Cockpit Client
  flatpak](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.cockpit_project.CockpitClient). It
  supports password and SSH key authentication to any SSH host and can
  even provide a Cockpit session for machines which don't have *any*
  Cockpit packages installed.

* For custom pages that use channels (commands, file operations, D-Bus
  calls, etc.) on a remote machine, use the
  [cockpit-connect-ssh](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/blob/main/pkg/lib/cockpit-connect-ssh.tsx)
  library to set up the SSH connection instead of relying on the host
  switcher.

### Mitigation

In the short term, you can re-enable host switcher functionality with
the `AllowMultiHost` option in
[cockpit.conf](https://cockpit-project.org/guide/latest/cockpit.conf.5.html):

```ini
[WebService]
AllowMultiHost=yes
```

> ## Files: Display permissions
> 
> Users can now view file permissions directly within the interface for
> a greater control over the file management. It is also possible to
> sort files by their permissions from most permissive or least
> permissive.
> 
> ![screenshot of ## display file permissions]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/322-display-file-permissions.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Files: Permissions column in details view

A sortable permissions column is now available in the details view. It shows permissions grouped by who it applies to and further explains permissions using tooltips.

![screenshot of ## display file permissions]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/322-display-file-permissions.png)
```

---
title: Cockpit 322
author: mvo
date: '2024-08-08'
tags: cockpit
slug: cockpit-322
category: release

> summary: ''

Reviewer 2: Needs a summary
